add 8.5.1 release notes (#19974)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.5.1.md

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 5 notes-->

    - Support folding read-only user-defined variables into constants [#52742](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52742) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Convert Cartesian product Semi Join with nulleq condition to Semi Join with equality condition [#57583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57583) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Adjust the default threshold of statistics memory cache to 20% of total memory [#58014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58014) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

+ TiKV <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 1 note-->

    - Add detection mechanism for illegal `max_ts` updates [#17916](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17916) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

+ TiFlash

    - (dup): release-7.5.5.md > Improvements> TiFlash - Optimize the retry strategy for TiFlash compute nodes in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture to handle exceptions when downloading files from Amazon S3 [#9695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9695) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC <!--tw@qiancai: 1 note-->

>         - 减少 TiCDC 在做 Initial Scan 时对与 TiKV 中 cache hit rate 的影响 [#17877](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17877) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Filter out events that are not subscribed to by TiCDC in advance to avoid unnecessary resource consumption [#17877](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17877) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

## Bug fixes

> + TiDB <!--tw@lilin90: the following 9 notes-->

Author: ```suggestion
+ TiDB <!--tw@lilin90: the following 10 notes-->
```

    - 修复没有收集过统计信息的表的上次 ANALYZE 时间可能不为 NULL 的问题 [#57735](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57735) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 正确处理取统计信息的异常，防止后台任务超时时内存内的统计信息被误删除的问题 [#57901](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57901) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复执行 DROP DATABASE 语句后统计信息未被清理的问题  [#57230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57230) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)
    - 修复在构造 IndexMerge 时可能丢失部分谓词的问题 [#58476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58476) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复在超过 3000 维向量类型的列上创建向量搜索索引会失败的问题 [#58836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58836) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
    - 修复 REORGANIZE PARTITION 操作未正确移除被替换的全局索引以及处理非聚簇表唯一索引的问题。[#56822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56822) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复分区表 Range INTERVAL 语法糖不支持使用 `MINUTE` 做间隔的问题。[#57698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57698) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复查询慢日志时，由于时区导致的时间范围错误的问题 [#58452](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58452) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - 修复在缩减 TTL 扫描任务工作线程时，任务取消失败可能导致扫描任务泄漏的问题。 [#57708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57708) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 10 notes-->

Author: ```suggestion
    - 修复在缩减 TTL 扫描任务工作线程时，任务取消失败可能导致扫描任务泄漏的问题。 [#57708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57708) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) 
    - 增强了时间戳合法性检查。[#57786](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57786) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 10 notes-->
```

    - (dup): release-8.1.2.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot report heartbeats to PD when the disk is stuck [#17939](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17939) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

+ PD <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 1 note-->

    - Fix the issue that PD might panic when the `tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy` system variable is enabled [#8950](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8950) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.5.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that `evict-leader-scheduler` fails to work properly when it is repeatedly created with the same Store ID [#8756](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8756) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@qiancai: 2 notes-->

    - (dup): release-7.5.5.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that querying new columns might return incorrect results under the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9665) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

>     - 修复 TiFlash 可能在内存占用不高的情况下，发生意外拒绝处理 Raft 消息的行为 [#9745](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9745) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
>     - 修复 TiFlash `Position` 函数不支持 Collation 的问题 [#9377](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9377) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might unexpectedly reject processing Raft messages when memory usage is low [#9745](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9745) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
    - Fix the issue that the `POSITION()` function for TiFlash does not support character set collation [#9377](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9377) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@qiancai: 1 note-->

>         - 修复了 PiTR 无法恢复大 Index 的问题。 [#58433](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/58433) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that PITR fails to restore indexes larger than 3072 bytes [#58430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58430) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

    + TiCDC <!--tw@qiancai: 5 notes-->

>         - 修复在扩容出新的 TiKV 节点后 Changefeed 可能会卡住的问题 [#11766](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11766) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
>         - 修复 event filter 在处理 rename table DDL 时错误的使用新的表名而不是旧的表名来进行过滤的问题 [#11946](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11946) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
>         - 修复在删除 changefeed 后 goroutine 泄漏的问题 [#11954](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11954) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
>         - 修复由于 Sarama 客户端乱序重发消息导致 kafka 消息乱序的问题 [#11935](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11935) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
>         - 修复 Debezium 协议中 not null timestamp 类型的默认值不正确的问题 [#11966](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11966) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)

Author: ```suggestion
         - Fix the issue that the changefeed might get stuck after new TiKV nodes are added to the cluster [#11766](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11766) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - Fix the issue that the event filter incorrectly uses the new table name instead of the old table name for filtering when processing `RENAME TABLE` DDL statements [#11946](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11946) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
        - Fix the issue that goroutines leak occurs after a changefeed is deleted [#11954](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11954) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that out-of-order messages resent by the Sarama client cause Kafka message order to be incorrect [#11935](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11935) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that the default value of the NOT NULL timestamp field in the Debezium protocol is incorrect [#11966](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11966) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.1 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the improvements and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.1.
---

# TiDB 8.5.1 Release Notes

Release date: January xx, 2025

TiDB version: 8.5.1

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Operating system and platform requirement changes

> Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumes the support for CentOS Linux 7. If you plan to deploy TiDB v8.5 or upgrade your cluster to v8.5, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.

Reviewer: My suggestion would be:

> Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7. If you plan to deploy TiDB v8.5 or upgrade your cluster to v8.5, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.

Author: Does it mean that v8.5.1 is compatible with CentOS Linux 7 but does not provide official support for it?

Reviewer: Yes, it was tested and works, but we are not adding it back to the list claiming we support it for production level quality - https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/hardware-and-software-requirements#os-and-platform-requirements

> Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumes the support for CentOS Linux 7. If you plan to deploy TiDB v8.5 or upgrade your cluster to v8.5, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7. If you plan to deploy TiDB v8.5 or upgrade your cluster to v8.5, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.
```

> - According to [CentOS Linux EOL](https://www.centos.org/centos-linux-eol/), the upstream support for CentOS Linux 7 ends on June 30, 2024. In v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0, TiDB temporarily suspends the support for CentOS 7 and recommends you to use Rocky Linux 9.1 or later. Upgrading a TiDB cluster on CentOS 7 to v8.4.0 or v8.5.0 will cause the risk of cluster unavailability.

Reviewer: I don't think we should say we temporarily suspended the support. Perhaps something like:

> TiDB v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0 releases dropped support and testing with CentOS Linux 7 due to it reaching [EOL status on June 30th, 2024](https://www.centos.org/centos-linux-eol/). To aid community users that are still running CentOS Linux 7, we resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7 with v8.5.1. TiDB continues to recommend that users migrate to a currently supported distribution for production usage.

> - According to [CentOS Linux EOL](https://www.centos.org/centos-linux-eol/), the upstream support for CentOS Linux 7 ends on June 30, 2024. In v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0, TiDB temporarily suspends the support for CentOS 7 and recommends you to use Rocky Linux 9.1 or later. Upgrading a TiDB cluster on CentOS 7 to v8.4.0 or v8.5.0 will cause the risk of cluster unavailability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiDB v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0 releases dropped support and testing with CentOS Linux 7 due to it reaching [EOL status on June 30th, 2024](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol). To aid community users that are still running CentOS Linux 7, we resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7 with v8.5.1. TiDB continues to recommend that users migrate to a currently supported distribution for production usage.
```

> - Although TiDB v8.5.1 and later versions resume the support for CentOS Linux 7, due to the CentOS Linux EOL status, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and consider migrating to an [operating system supported by TiDB](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements), such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.

Reviewer: I would suggest changing the terminology from "support" to "testing". E.g. this first sentence fragment could become "Although TiDB v8.5.1 and later versions resume testing for CentOS Linux 7,"

Reviewer: And add a statement/bullet at the end of this to let users know that we will be removing testing of CentOS 7 in the future. E.g.

> - As CentOS Linux 7 has reached EOL in a future release, testing of this distribution will be stopped

    - (dup): release-7.5.5.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that data indexes are inconsistent because plan cache uses the wrong schema when adding indexes [#56733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56733) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - (dup): release-7.5.5.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that the data in the **Stats Healthy Distribution** panel of Grafana might be incorrect [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that the last `ANALYZE` time of tables without collected statistics might not be NULL [#57735](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57735) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that improper exception handling for statistics causes in-memory statistics to be mistakenly deleted when background tasks time out [#57901](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57901) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that statistics are not cleared after executing the `DROP DATABASE` statement [#57230](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57230) @[Rustin170506](https://github.com/Rustin170506)

>     - Fix the issue that some predicates might be lost when constructing IndexMerge [#58476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58476) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that some predicates might be lost when constructing `IndexMerge` [#58476](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58476) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

>     - Fix the issue that creating a vector search index on a column with more than 3000 dimensions would fail [#58836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58836) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that creating a vector search index on a column with more than 3000 dimensions causes the `KeyTooLong` error [#58836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58836) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the `REORGANIZE PARTITION` operation does not correctly clean up replaced global indexes and handle unique indexes on non-clustered tables [#56822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56822) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `REORGANIZE PARTITION` operation does not correctly clean up replaced global indexes and handles unique indexes on non-clustered tables [#56822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56822) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    - 修复查询慢日志时，由于时区导致的时间范围错误的问题 [#58452](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58452) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复在缩减 TTL 扫描任务工作线程时，任务取消失败可能导致扫描任务泄漏的问题。 [#57708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57708) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) 
    - 增强了时间戳合法性检查。[#57786](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57786) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 10 notes-->

>     - 修复在丢失心跳后，若 TTL 表被删除或禁用，TTL 作业仍继续运行的问题 [#57702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57702) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that after a heartbeat is lost and the TTL table is deleted or disabled, TTL jobs keep running [#57702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57702) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

>     - 修复 TTL 作业被取消后，last_job_finish_time 显示不正确的问题 [#58109](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58109) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `last_job_finish_time` is displayed incorrectly after a TTL job is canceled [#58109](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58109) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the timezone causes incorrect time ranges when querying slow logs [#58452](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58452) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that changing the timezone causes incorrect query results when querying slow logs [#58452](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58452) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>     - 修复 TiDB 丢失心跳时，TTL 任务无法被取消的问题 [#57784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57784) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复某个 TTL 任务丢失心跳会阻塞其他任务获取心跳的问题 [#57915](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57915) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复缩减 TTL 工作线程时，部分过期行未被删除的问题。 [#57990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57990) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
>     - 修复当 TTL 删除速率限制器被中断时，剩余行未重试的问题。[#58205](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58205) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
>     - 修复在某些情况下，TTL 可能生成大量警告日志的问题。[#58305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58305) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
>     - 修复在修改 tidb_ttl_delete_rate_limit 时，部分 TTL 任务可能挂起的问题。[#58484](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58484) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
>     - 修复执行 REORGANIZE PARTITION 时，数据回填可能导致并发更新被回滚的问题。[#58226](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58226) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
>     - 修复查询 cluster_slow_query 表时使用 order by 可能导致结果乱序的问题。[#51723](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51723) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that after a heartbeat is lost and the TTL table is deleted or disabled, TTL jobs keep running [#57784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57784) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - 修复某个 TTL 任务丢失心跳会阻塞其他任务获取心跳的问题 [#57915](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57915) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - 修复缩减 TTL 工作线程时，部分过期行未被删除的问题。 [#57990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57990) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复当 TTL 删除速率限制器被中断时，剩余行未重试的问题。[#58205](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58205) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复在某些情况下，TTL 可能生成大量警告日志的问题。[#58305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58305) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复在修改 tidb_ttl_delete_rate_limit 时，部分 TTL 任务可能挂起的问题。[#58484](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58484) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - 修复执行 REORGANIZE PARTITION 时，数据回填可能导致并发更新被回滚的问题。[#58226](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58226) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - 修复查询 cluster_slow_query 表时使用 order by 可能导致结果乱序的问题。[#51723](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51723) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.1 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the operating system and platform requirement changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.1.
---

# TiDB 8.5.1 Release Notes

> Release date: January xx, 2025

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: January 17, 2025
```

TiDB version: 8.5.1

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Operating system and platform requirement changes

Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumes testing of CentOS Linux 7 and is compatible with it. If you plan to deploy TiDB v8.5 or upgrade your cluster to v8.5, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.

> - TiDB v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0 releases dropped support and testing with CentOS Linux 7 because it reaches [EOL status on June 30, 2024](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol). Upgrading a TiDB cluster on CentOS 7 to v8.4.0 or v8.5.0 will cause the risk of cluster unavailability.

Author: ```suggestion
- TiDB v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0 releases dropped support and testing with CentOS Linux 7 because it reached [EOL status on June 30, 2024](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol). Upgrading a TiDB cluster on CentOS 7 to v8.4.0 or v8.5.0 will cause the risk of cluster unavailability.
```

> - TiDB v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0 releases dropped support and testing with CentOS Linux 7 because it reaches [EOL status on June 30th, 2024](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol). Upgrading a TiDB cluster on CentOS 7 to v8.4.0 or v8.5.0 will cause the risk of cluster unavailability.

Author: ```suggestion
- TiDB v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0 releases dropped support and testing with CentOS Linux 7 because it reaches [EOL status on June 30, 2024](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol). Upgrading a TiDB cluster on CentOS 7 to v8.4.0 or v8.5.0 will cause the risk of cluster unavailability.
```

> - To assist users still running CentOS Linux 7, we resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7 with v8.5.1. However, due to the EOL status of CentOS Linux, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and migrate to an [operating system supported by TiDB](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements) for production use, such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.

Author: ```suggestion
- To assist users still running CentOS Linux 7, we resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7 starting from v8.5.1. However, due to the EOL status of CentOS Linux, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and migrate to an [operating system supported by TiDB](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements) for production use, such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.
```

> - To assist users still running CentOS Linux 7, we resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7 starting from v8.5.1. However, due to the EOL status of CentOS Linux, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and migrate to an [operating system supported by TiDB](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements) for production use, such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- To assist users still using CentOS Linux 7, TiDB resumes testing of CentOS Linux 7 starting from v8.5.1. However, due to the EOL status of CentOS Linux, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and migrate to an [operating system supported by TiDB](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements) for production use, such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.
```

> Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7 and is compatible with it. If you plan to deploy TiDB v8.5 or upgrade your cluster to v8.5, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.
> 
> - TiDB v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0 releases dropped support and testing with CentOS Linux 7 due to it reaching [EOL status on June 30th, 2024](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol). To aid community users that are still running CentOS Linux 7, we resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7 with v8.5.1. TiDB continues to recommend that users migrate to a [currently supported distribution](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements) for production usage.
> 
> - Although TiDB v8.5.1 and later versions resume testing for CentOS Linux 7, due to the CentOS Linux EOL status, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and consider migrating to an [operating system supported by TiDB](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements), such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.
> 
> As CentOS Linux 7 has reached EOL in a future release, testing of this distribution will be stopped.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumes testing of CentOS Linux 7 and is compatible with it. If you plan to deploy TiDB v8.5 or upgrade your cluster to v8.5, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.

- TiDB v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0 releases dropped support and testing with CentOS Linux 7 because it reaches [EOL status on June 30th, 2024](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/centos-linux-eol). Upgrading a TiDB cluster on CentOS 7 to v8.4.0 or v8.5.0 will cause the risk of cluster unavailability.

- To assist users still running CentOS Linux 7, we resumed testing of CentOS Linux 7 with v8.5.1. However, due to the EOL status of CentOS Linux, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and migrate to an [operating system supported by TiDB](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md#os-and-platform-requirements) for production use, such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.

As CentOS Linux 7 has reached EOL, testing of this distribution will be stopped in a future release.
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Support folding read-only user-defined variables into constants [#52742](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52742) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Convert Cartesian product Semi Join with nulleq condition to Semi Join with equality condition [#57583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57583) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Adjust the default threshold of statistics memory cache to 20% of total memory [#58014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58014) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Adjust the default threshold of statistics memory cache to 20% of the total memory [#58014](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58014) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

    - Enhance the timestamp validity check [#57786](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57786) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

+ TiKV

>     - Add detection mechanism for illegal `max_ts` updates [#17916](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17916) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Add the detection mechanism for invalid `max_ts` updates [#17916](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17916) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot report heartbeats to PD when the disk is stuck [#17939](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17939) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that PD might panic when the `tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy` system variable is enabled [#8950](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8950) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - Fix the issue that `evict-leader-scheduler` fails to work properly when it is repeatedly created with the same Store ID [#8756](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8756) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that querying new columns might return incorrect results under the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#9665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9665) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might unexpectedly reject processing Raft messages when memory usage is low [#9745](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9745) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)

>     - Fix the issue that the `POSITION()` function for TiFlash does not support character set collation [#9377](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9377) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `POSITION()` function for TiFlash does not support character set collations [#9377](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9377) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.5.1 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the improvements and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.1.
---

# TiDB 8.5.1 Release Notes

Release date: January xx, 2025

TiDB version: 8.5.1

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Operating system and platform requirement changes

> Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumes the support for CentOS Linux 7. If you plan to deploy TiDB version 8.5 or upgrade your cluster to this version, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting from v8.5.1, TiDB resumes the support for CentOS Linux 7. If you plan to deploy TiDB v8.5 or upgrade your cluster to TiDB v8.5, ensure you use TiDB v8.5.1 or a later version.
```

- According to [CentOS Linux EOL](https://www.centos.org/centos-linux-eol/), the upstream support for CentOS Linux 7 ends on June 30, 2024. In v8.4.0 DMR and v8.5.0, TiDB temporarily suspends the support for CentOS 7 and recommends you to use Rocky Linux 9.1 or later. Upgrading a TiDB cluster on CentOS 7 to v8.4.0 or v8.5.0 will cause the risk of cluster unavailability.

> - Although TiDB v8.5.1 and later versions resume the support for CentOS Linux 7, due to its EOL status, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and consider migrating to a supported operating system, such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.

Author: ```suggestion
- Although TiDB v8.5.1 and later versions resume the support for CentOS Linux 7, due to the CentOS Linux EOL status, it is strongly recommended that you review the [official announcements and security guidance](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/centos-linux-has-reached-its-end-life-eol) for CentOS Linux 7 and consider migrating to a supported operating system, such as Rocky Linux 9.1 or later.
```
